Managing AWS Credentials on CI/CD - Part 3 (#3165)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/managing-aws-credentials-on-cicd-part-3/index.md

---
title: "Managing AWS Credentials on CI/CD - Part 3"
date: 2020-04-29
meta_desc: "Best practices for managing AWS credentials on CI/CD - Part 3 in the series"
authors:
    - chris-smith
    - sophia-parafina
tags:
    - CI/CD
    - secrets
---

This article is the third part of a series on best practices for securely managing AWS credentials on CI/CD. In this article, we cover the

> last leg of the continuous delivery process to update your AWS resources and how to securely store sensitive data using Pulumi.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
last leg of the continuous delivery process to update your AWS resources and how to store sensitive data using Pulumi securely.
```

<!--more-->

Posts in this series:

- [Create a dedicated IAM User for your CI/CD]({{< relref "/blog/managing-aws-credentials-on-cicd-part-1#create-new-iam-user" >}})
- [Provide the IAM User’s credentials to your CI/CD system]({{< relref "/blog/managing-aws-credentials-on-cicd-part-2#providing-iam-credentials" >}})
- [Comparison with using hosted secret managers]({{< relref "/blog/managing-aws-credentials-on-cicd-part-2#using-a-secrets-service" >}})
- [Automate Rotating and Revoking AWS Credentials]({{< relref "/blog/managing-aws-credentials-on-cicd-part-2#automating-key-rotation" >}})
- [Assuming IAM Roles for performing updates](#assuming-iam-roles)
- [Securing sensitive data using Pulumi](#secrets-in-pulumi)

## Recap

In [part 1]({{< relref "/blog/managing-aws-credentials-on-cicd-part-1" >}}) we created a dedicated IAM User with

> limited privledges. Then in [part 2]({{< relref "/blog/managing-aws-credentials-on-cicd-part-2" >}}) we set up a simple,

Reviewer 2: *privileges :)

- That the principle assuming the role (e.g. IAM User) have the tag `"access-to-production"` with value `"true"`. This way,
  we will reject any IAM User in the bastion account who isn't tagged with `"access-to-production"` from assuming this role.
- We also verify that the "external ID" (an optional parameter passed when assuming an IAM Role) matches a well-known Pulumi
  stack name. This way we can double check that the entity who is using the IAM Role is doing so to use a specific stack.
  (This is less of a security measure and more of a general hygine type requirement.)

### IAM Policy Document

Now we have an IAM Role, we need to attach a policy document that defines what permissions are actually granted.

This is the **most important step**, since it will define what exactly the CI/CD bot will be able to do.

If we define the policy too broadly, then it is a general risk. For example, what if a compromised NPM package in your
Pulumi program did something nefarious. If the policy is defined too narrowly, then your `pulumi up` might fail because
the necessary permissions weren't available. When in doubt, err on the side of having a more restrictive policy.

> > It can be extremely useful to have an identical "staging" and "production" instance of the same Pulumi stack,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It can be advantageous to have an identical "staging" and "production" instance of the same Pulumi stack,
```

> so you can detect any permission issues before you update the user-facing production stack.

> It can take some time to winnow down the specific set of permissions necessary, since that is ultimately specific to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can take some time to winnow down the specific set of permissions necessary since that is ultimately specific to
```

the Pulumi program. For example, if the stack governs the networking configuration, then you can simply not deny
to the `s3:*` actions.

> Unfortunately Pulumi doesn't currently support generating a reasonable IAM Policy document for your stack. But for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, Pulumi doesn't currently support generating a reasonable IAM Policy document for your stack. But for a
```

> good introduction to some of the "worst case scenarios" that could arise from a misconfigured IAM Policy,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
good introduction to some of the "worst-case scenarios" that could arise from a misconfigured IAM Policy,
```

            Resource: "arn:aws:cloudfront::0123456789:distribution/A123B1CABWZZ",
        },
    ],
};

const websiteUpdaterPolicy = new aws.iam.Policy("WebsiteUpdaterRolePolicy", {
    name: "WebsiteUpdaterRolePolicy",
    description: "Policy granting the permissions needed for updating the website/production Pulumi stack",
    policy: websiteUpdaterPolicyDocument,
}, resourceOptions);
```

To actually associate the IAM Policy document with the new IAM Role, we need to create a
[PolicyAttachment](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/aws/iam/policyattachment/#policyattachment)
associating the two.

```typescript
const rolePolicyAttachment = new aws.iam.RolePolicyAttachment("WebsiteStackUpdaterRolePolicyAttachment", {
    role: websiteStackUpdaterRole,
    policyArn: websiteUpdaterPolicy.arn,
});
```

> Reminder, we defined the IAM Role in our production AWS account which allows any principle in the AWS
> bastion account (with the right tag, external ID) to assume that role. We then need to update the bastion
> account to grant the `sts:AssumeRole` action on that IAM Role so it can be used! That isn't covered in this post.

### Assuming the IAM Role

> Finally! With everyone in place, we can now can _use_ the IAM Role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally! With everyone in place, we can now _use_ the IAM Role.
```

> The following is a set of commands you can run on your CI/CD worker to exchange the low-priledge IAM User

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a set of commands you can run on your CI/CD worker to exchange the low-privilege IAM User
```

> credentials, for the specific IAM Role we just created in the production AWS account. But there are many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credentials for the specific IAM Role we just created in the production AWS account. But there are many
```

> alternatives for how to programatically assume an IAM Role, such as using the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
alternatives for programmatically assuming an IAM Role, such as using the
```

[`AWS_PROFILE` environment variable](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html))
or the [`assume-role`](https://github.com/coinbase/assume-role) tool.

```bash

> # Use the AWS credentials passed to the CI system, and available as environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use the AWS credentials passed to the CI system and available as environment variables.
```

> # These are the low-priledge credentials that automatically get rotated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# These are the low-privilege credentials that automatically get rotated.
```

# as required to assume the role.
readonly CREDS_JSON=$(aws sts assume-role \
                 --role-arn "${ARN_OF_IAM_ROLE_TO_ASSUME}" \
                 --role-session-name "<useful description of the context, such as CI/CD job ID>" \
                 --external-id "${TARGET_STACK}")

# The `aws sts assume-role` command just returns a JSON blob. So we now tease out the actual
# access key and set the corresponding environment variables.
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=$(echo "${CREDS_JSON}"     | jq ".Credentials.AccessKeyId" --raw-output)
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=$(echo "${CREDS_JSON}" | jq ".Credentials.SecretAccessKey" --raw-output)
export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=$(echo "${CREDS_JSON}"     | jq ".Credentials.SessionToken" --raw-output)

# If everything worked correctly, then running the get-caller-identity command will refer to
# the IAM Role and not the IAM User we started as.
echo "Assumed AWS identity:"
aws sts get-caller-identity
```

## Storing Sensitive Data using Pulumi {#secrets-in-pulumi}

As a developer, the most critical security threat is access to your cloud account. Since that's

> ultimately where you (or your customer's) data is stored. But beyond that, there are places where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ultimately where your or your customer's data is stored. But beyond that, there are places where
```

sensitive data gets stored by Pulumi too.

> Pulumi goes to great lengths to safeguard your data. But here we review where Pulumi interacts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi goes to great lengths to safeguard your data. Here we review where Pulumi interacts
```

> with your sensitive data, and what you can do to better safeguard it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with your sensitive data, and what you can do to safeguard it better.
```

### Secrets in Configuration

> A Pulumi stack can have configuration data associated with it, which allow you to parameterize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Pulumi stack can have configuration data associated with it, which allows you to parameterize
```

cloud resources. For example, a `machine-size` configuration key might determine which class of
virtual machine to use. A dev stack might only need a `"t2.small"` but your production instance
might need something more powerful.

Configuration data is stored in a file like `Pulumi.website-production.yaml` should be checked in

> along with the source code for a stack, so that builds and stack updates are reproduceable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
along with the source code for a stack, so that builds and stack updates are reproducible.
```

> However, what if those configuration settings contains secrets? Like you need to store an API key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, what if those configuration settings contain secrets? Like you need to store an API key
```

to use a 3rd party API.

> Pulumi supports the ability of [encrypting sensitive configuration data](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/config/#secrets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi supports [encrypting sensitive configuration data](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/config/#secrets).
```

You just need to add the `--secret` flag.

```bash
# Securely add an API key to the stack's configuration.
pulumi config set api-key "hunter2" --secret
```

For stacks hosted on the [Pulumi Console](https://app.pulumi.com), the default is that your configuration

> data is encrypted using a key specific to your stack. (So the cipher text stored in the `Pulumi.yaml` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data is encrypted using a key specific to your stack. (So the ciphertext stored in the `Pulumi.yaml` file
```

is safe to check into your source tree, since it cannot be copied/decrypted for another stack.)

### Secrets in Checkpoint Files

Pulumi keeps track of your cloud resources in a something called a [checkpoint file]({{< ref "/docs/intro/concepts/state" >}}),
and that too might contain sensitive information. For example, a Pulumi resource might have a `"password"` output property.

Pulumi [has support]({{< ref "/docs/intro/concepts/programming-model#additionalsecretoutputs" >}}) to mark that resource

> output as "secret", and make sure that it is encrypted within the checkpoint file. (So if you were to look at the checkpoint file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
output as "secret" and make sure that it is encrypted within the checkpoint file. (So if you were to look at the checkpoint file
```

> contents via [`pulumi stack export`]({{< ref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_export" >}}) you would not be able to recover

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contents via [`pulumi stack export`]({{< ref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_export" >}}), you would not be able to recover
```

the data.

Just like for secret configuration values, the default for stacks hosted on the Pulumi Console is to encrypt
this data using a key that Pulumi manages and is specific to your stack.

### Custom Secrets Providers

We at Pulumi take great care in safeguarding your data, especially configuration or checkpoint data that is marked as sensitive.
However, you might feel more comfortable if your stack's data were encrypted using a key that _you_ controlled. (So even if the
data stored on the Pulumi Console were available, it would be useless without your specific key.)

If that's the case, then you can use a configurable secrets provider, and swap out the default "Pulumi Console managed" encryption
scheme for your own. (And we won't take it personally, promise.)

> When you create a new stack using [pulumi stack init]({{< ref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_init" >}}) you can optionally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a new stack using [pulumi stack init]({{< ref "/docs/reference/cli/pulumi_stack_init" >}}), you can optionally
```

specify a `--secrets-provider` flag. That will determine the where and how of how secrets get managed on your stack.

For example, to use your own KMS key for encrypting data, you can pass the secrets provider 
`"awskms://alias/ExampleAlias?region=us-east-1"`. The Pulumi command-line will work and behave the same. Except that
whenever it needs to encrypt or decrypt some data, it will refer to the custom provider.

> > As you would expect, if you do use a custom secrets provider and lose access to your encryption key then there is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> As you would expect, if you do use a custom secrets provider and lose access to your encryption key, then there is
```

> no way to recover the encrypted data stored on your stack.

For more information on custom secret providers, see [Managing Secrets with Pulumi]({{< relref "managing-secrets-with-pulumi" >}}).

## Wrapping Up

> Securely managing any sensitive data is difficult to get right. Especially if there are a number of moving parts, such as when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Securely managing any sensitive data is challenging to get right. Especially if there are many moving parts, such as when
```

coordinating access between your AWS account, CI/CD provider, and your Pulumi stack.

> In this blog series we walked through the best practices in creating, securing, and managing access to an AWS account using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog series, we walked through the best practices in creating, securing, and managing access to an AWS account using
```

> IAM Users and Roles. And then reviewed the specifics of where and how Pulumi stores sensitive data, in case you want to take

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IAM Users and Roles. We then reviewed the specifics of where and how Pulumi stores sensitive data, in case you want to take
```
